			-Views-
		 A Smart Query Builder

- The views module allows administrators and site designers to 
   create, manage, and display lists of content.

-  Each list managed by the views module is known as a "view", 
    and the output of a view is known as a "display".


- A view may be restricted to members of specific user roles, and 
   may be added, edited or deleted at the views administration
   page.

- The Views Module provides the dynamo in a dynamic web site.  
   It makes your work easier and more powerful in building the 
   site and especially in maintaining it.


- The "building block" design of the views system provides power 
   and flexibility, allowing parameters to be specified only when 
   needed. While an advanced view may use all of available 
   parameters to create complex and highly interactive 
   applications, a simple content listing may specify only a few 
   options.





	-Downloading and Enabling Views-

1. Download and uncompress the files and put them in your 
     contributed modules directory. In most systems, this is at 
     sites/all/modules/contrib or simply sites/all/modules so that 
     you can find all of the Views files in 
     sites/all/modules/contrib/views or sites/all/modules/views.
2. On your web site, make sure you are logged in as a user with 
     permission to administer modules or as a user with the  
     Administrator role. Use the administrative menu at the top and 
     click Modules.
3.  Scroll down to the Views fieldset. CTools is a required module 
      for Views to work. Download and install CTools. 
4. Since all required files are available, you may now enable 
     Views. Check the checkboxes for Views and Views UI, then 
     Save configuration.






		-Configuring Views-

1. Go to the Administrative menu at the top and click People. 
    Click the Permissions tab. There are two permissions for the 
    Views module, “Administer views” and “Access all views”.
2. “Administer views” grants access to the Views administration 
     pages allowing users the ability to create, edit and delete 
     Views.
3. “Bypass views access control” is another permission that 
     should be used sparingly. For a specific View, you can specify 
     which roles can see the results. 
4. Selecting the “Access all views” permission for a role will 
     override that setting.
5. Using the Administration menu, click Structure and then on 
     that page, click Views. This is the Views list page where all 
     Views in your web site are listed.






	   -Some Important Terms In Views-

Fields - individual pieces of data being displayed

Relationships - information about how data elements relate to 
                one another.
Arguments - additional parameters that dynamically refine the 
            view results, passed as part of the path.
Sort criteria - which determine the order of items displayed in 
                the view results.
Filters - which limit items displayed in the results.

Displays - which control where the output will be seen.

Header/Footer - which allow you to add by default one or more 
                text area above/below the views output.


		-Displays-

 A display determines how a view will be presented to the user. A view can have multiple
 displays, and can even create several pages listing the same content in different ways.
 There are by default 4 types of displays:

1. Attachment- A supplementary display that can be attached above and/or below other types of 
   displays. This can be helpful when giving a view context or adding a glossary when
   your view is being filtered.

2. Block- Creates a compact list display that can be positioned in sidebars or any region.

3. Feed- Creates a customizable RSS feed to which users may subscribe using an RSS reader.
   Feeds can both receive their own URL and be attached to any block or page display.

4. Page- Makes a page with its own URL in which the view occupies the main content.


             -Multiple Views vs Multiple Displays-

1. Multiple displays in one view is appropriate when they are fundamentally similar and are sharing quite a fair amount of data.
   For example, showing upcoming events in either blocks or page and sorting it according to either event name or date of the event
   will be appropriate to be implemented by four displays (two blocks and two pages) in one view.

2. On the other hand, having multiple displays in one view that contains mostly overrides will be a burden to the system and will be hard
   to maintain. The effect of having only couple of such displays has negligible performance difference. It will be magnified when
   the number of displays in one view is large.

2. Another consideration is the use of Views, especially when using multiple views in conjunction with other modules such as Panels.
   It is entirely possible to have many views on a page due to Panels' ability to contain a view in each pane. Some people have 
   mistaken this as a problem on Panels' or Views' part, but realistically it is likely to be the sheer number of queries that are
   being run during page render. 



